readme.md, before:


![Monster banner image](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/media/monster_banner.png)
# NC redistricting analysis
A collection of resources and notes for the ongoing analysis of North Carolina's 2021 redistricting proposals by [The News & Observer](https://www.newsobserver.com/).

Largely sourced from the N.C. General Assembly's:

 - [House Redistricting Committee](https://ncleg.gov/Committees/CommitteeInfo/HouseStanding/182#Documents)
 - [Senate Redistricting and Elections Committee](https://ncleg.gov/Committees/CommitteeInfo/SenateStanding/154#Documents)

A work in progress.

For background, [read up from The News & Observer's Will Doran](https://www.newsobserver.com/news/politics-government/article255119247.html).

Complain to the N&O's [@mtdukes](http://twitter.com/mtdukes).

Want to learn more about redistricting? Check out our four-part podcast, [Monster: Maps, Math and Power in North Carolina.](https://www.newsobserver.com/monster)

## N.C. Senate proposals 
Maps and related files [proposed](https://ncleg.gov/Committees/CommitteeInfo/SenateStanding/154#2021%5CMember%20Submitted%20Maps) by members of the North Carolina state Senate.

### Congressional
14 districts.

#### CBK-3
- [Block assignment file (csv)](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cbk3.csv)
- [Shapefiles](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cbk3)
- [DRA interactive](https://davesredistricting.org/maps#viewmap::656feac5-fde7-4ef4-90e3-2ca28411476b)

#### CBK-4
- [Block assignment file (csv)](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cbk4.csv)
- [Shapefiles](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cbk4)
- [DRA interactive](https://davesredistricting.org/maps#viewmap::37de15ce-69ba-4f0b-883c-ef27cb1cdf08)

#### CBK-5
- [Block assignment file (csv)](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cbk5.csv)
- [Shapefiles](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cbk5)
- [DRA interactive](https://davesredistricting.org/maps#viewmap::007275e0-3776-47c1-8fbc-e4e2452de6c9)

#### CMT-9
- [Block assignment file (csv)](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cmt9.csv)
- [Shapefiles](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cmt9)
- [DRA interactive](https://davesredistricting.org/maps#viewmap::8406e5d4-7a81-485c-92df-699637929918)

#### CST-2
- [Block assignment file (csv)](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cst2.csv)
- [Shapefiles](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cst2)
- [DRA interactive](https://davesredistricting.org/maps#viewmap::947a70bd-8660-4829-a887-7bb35a0f3aff)

#### CST-6
- [Block assignment file (csv)](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cst6.csv)
- [Shapefiles](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cst6)
- [DRA interactive](https://davesredistricting.org/maps#viewmap::c0632322-f2ec-4d0a-b6d4-656a6d819e74)

### N.C. Senate
50 districts.

#### SST-4
- [Block assignment file (csv)](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/sst4.csv)
- [Shapefiles](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/sst4)
- [DRA interactive](https://davesredistricting.org/maps#viewmap::138c4a4d-f096-465e-9d83-3be4e1e896e9)

## State House proposals 
Maps and related files [proposed](https://ncleg.gov/Committees/CommitteeInfo/HouseStanding/182#2021\Member%20Submitted%20Maps) by members of the North Carolina state House.

### Congressional
14 districts.

#### CBA-2

 - [Block assignment file (csv)](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cba2.csv)
 - [Shapefiles](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cba2)
 - [DRA interactive](https://davesredistricting.org/maps#viewmap::0dee099c-2f85-4d0f-bd81-39fe5805b5dd)

### N.C. House
120 districts.

#### HBK-11
- [Block assignment file (csv)](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/hbk11.csv)
- [Shapefiles](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/hbk11)
- [DRA interactive](https://davesredistricting.org/maps#viewmap::d61471bc-e2b3-43f3-a7c4-f2993c6383be)

Commit message:

adding crosswalk and county cluster background

readme.md, after:

![Monster banner image](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/media/monster_banner.png)
# NC redistricting analysis
A collection of resources and notes for the ongoing analysis of North Carolina's 2021 redistricting proposals by [The News & Observer](https://www.newsobserver.com/).

Largely sourced from the N.C. General Assembly's:

 - [House Redistricting Committee](https://ncleg.gov/Committees/CommitteeInfo/HouseStanding/182#Documents)
 - [Senate Redistricting and Elections Committee](https://ncleg.gov/Committees/CommitteeInfo/SenateStanding/154#Documents)

A work in progress.

For background, [read up from The News & Observer's Will Doran](https://www.newsobserver.com/news/politics-government/article255119247.html).

Complain to the N&O's [@mtdukes](http://twitter.com/mtdukes).

Want to learn more about redistricting? Check out our four-part podcast, [Monster: Maps, Math and Power in North Carolina.](https://www.newsobserver.com/monster)

## N.C. Senate proposals 
Maps and related files [proposed](https://ncleg.gov/Committees/CommitteeInfo/SenateStanding/154#2021%5CMember%20Submitted%20Maps) by members of the North Carolina state Senate.

### Congressional
14 districts.

#### CBK-3
- [Block assignment file (csv)](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cbk3.csv)
- [Shapefiles](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cbk3)
- [DRA interactive](https://davesredistricting.org/maps#viewmap::656feac5-fde7-4ef4-90e3-2ca28411476b)

#### CBK-4
- [Block assignment file (csv)](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cbk4.csv)
- [Shapefiles](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cbk4)
- [DRA interactive](https://davesredistricting.org/maps#viewmap::37de15ce-69ba-4f0b-883c-ef27cb1cdf08)

#### CBK-5
- [Block assignment file (csv)](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cbk5.csv)
- [Shapefiles](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cbk5)
- [DRA interactive](https://davesredistricting.org/maps#viewmap::007275e0-3776-47c1-8fbc-e4e2452de6c9)

#### CMT-9
- [Block assignment file (csv)](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cmt9.csv)
- [Shapefiles](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cmt9)
- [DRA interactive](https://davesredistricting.org/maps#viewmap::8406e5d4-7a81-485c-92df-699637929918)

#### CST-2
- [Block assignment file (csv)](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cst2.csv)
- [Shapefiles](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cst2)
- [DRA interactive](https://davesredistricting.org/maps#viewmap::947a70bd-8660-4829-a887-7bb35a0f3aff)

#### CST-6
- [Block assignment file (csv)](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cst6.csv)
- [Shapefiles](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cst6)
- [DRA interactive](https://davesredistricting.org/maps#viewmap::c0632322-f2ec-4d0a-b6d4-656a6d819e74)

### N.C. Senate
50 districts. Based on county clustering established by the Stephenson ruling:
- 10 districts are fixed inside a single county cluster
- 26 districts are contained in 7 fixed county clusters
- 14 districts are contained in 4 groups of county clusters with 2 choices each, or 16 combinations total

#### SST-4
- [Block assignment file (csv)](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/sst4.csv)
- [Shapefiles](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/sst4)
- [DRA interactive](https://davesredistricting.org/maps#viewmap::138c4a4d-f096-465e-9d83-3be4e1e896e9)

This N.C. Senate map proposal uses the following county cluster choice (Duke_Senate 04):
- **A1:** Buncombe-Burke-McDowell, Cleveland-Gaston-Lincoln, Henderson-Polk-Rutherford
- **B1:** Forsyth-Stokes, Alexander-Surry-Wilkes-Yadkin
- **C2:** Bladen-Duplin-Harnett-Jones-Lee-Pender-Sampson, Brunswick-Columbus-New Hanover
- **D2:** Carteret-Chowan-Halifax-Hyde-Martin-Pamlico-Warren-Washington, Bertie-Camden-Currituck-Dare-Gates-Hertford-Northampton-Pasquotank-Perquimans-Tyrrell

## State House proposals 
Maps and related files [proposed](https://ncleg.gov/Committees/CommitteeInfo/HouseStanding/182#2021\Member%20Submitted%20Maps) by members of the North Carolina state House.

### Congressional
14 districts. 

#### CBA-2

 - [Block assignment file (csv)](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cba2.csv)
 - [Shapefiles](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/cba2)
 - [DRA interactive](https://davesredistricting.org/maps#viewmap::0dee099c-2f85-4d0f-bd81-39fe5805b5dd)

### N.C. House
120 districts. Based on county clustering established by the Stephenson ruling:
- 11 districts are fixed inside a single county cluster
- 96 districts are contained in 22 fixed county clusters
- 13 districts are contained in 3 groups of county clusters with 2 choices each, or 8 combinations total

#### HBK-11
- [Block assignment file (csv)](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/hbk11.csv)
- [Shapefiles](https://github.com/mtdukes/redistricting2021/blob/main/data/proposals/hbk11)
- [DRA interactive](https://davesredistricting.org/maps#viewmap::d61471bc-e2b3-43f3-a7c4-f2993c6383be)

This N.C. House map proposal uses the following county cluster choice (Duke_House 01):
- **A1:** Alexander-Surry-Wilkes, Alleghany-Ashe-Caldwell-Watauga
- **B1:** Bladen-Pender, Duplin-Onslow, Sampson-Wayne
- **C1:** Beaufort-Chowan-Currituck-Dare-Hyde-Pamlico-Perquimans-Tyrrell-Washington, Camden-Gates-Hertford_Pasquotank
